Taints and tolerations : 
they are not responsible for security, they see which pods can go to which node.
When the pods are created kubernetes scheduler tries to place these pods on avaialble worker nodes.Scheduler tries to distribute the load evenly.
Taints are set on nodes and tolerations are set on pods.

Command to taint node:
- kubectl taint nodes node-name key=value:taint-effect
taint-effect defines what would happen to the pods if they do not tolerate the taint. There are 3 taint effects :
1. NoSchedule - pods will not be scheduled on the node
2. PreferNoSchedule - system will try to avaoid placing a pod on the node but not guaranteed
3. NoExecute - new pods will not be scheduled on the nodes and existing pods on the node if any will be evicted if they do not tolerate the taint
Ex: kubectl taint nodes node1 app=blue:NoSchedule

Tolerations are added to PODs
Taints and tolerations does not tell pods to go to a particular node it tells nodes to accept certain pods.

Command to check whether ant taint is present in node01 node
- kubectl describe node node01 | grep Taint

Q)Create another pod named bee with the nginx image, which has a toleration set to the taint mortein.
- create yaml file -> vi sample.yaml
YAML File:-
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: bee
  labels:
    type: redis-pod
    app: redis
spec:
  containers:
   - name: redis123
     image: nginx
  tolerations:
   - key: "spray"
     operator: "Equal"
     value: "mortein"
     effect: "NoSchedule"
     
- create --> kubectl create -f sample.yaml

-command to remove taint from node: kubectl taint node node-name taint-address-
ex: kubectl taint node controlplane node-role.kubernetes.io/master:NoSchedule-

Note:
To find the cluster IP address of a Kubernetes pod, use the kubectl get pod command on your local machine, with the option -o wide . This option will 
list more information, including the node the pod resides on, and the pod's cluster IP. The IP column will contain the internal cluster IP address for 
each pod.
Command : kubectl get pods -o wide


     

